docs/cli/index.md, before:

# Gemini CLI

Within Gemini CLI, `packages/cli` is the frontend for users to send and receive prompts with the Gemini AI model and its associated tools. For a general overview of Gemini CLI, see the [main documentation page](../index.md).

## Navigating this section

- **[Authentication](./authentication.md):** A guide to setting up authentication with Google's AI services.
- **[Commands](./commands.md):** A reference for Gemini CLI commands (e.g., `/help`, `/tools`, `/theme`).
- **[Configuration](./configuration.md):** A guide to tailoring Gemini CLI behavior using configuration files.
- **[Token Caching](./token-caching.md):** Optimize API costs through token caching.
- **[Themes](./themes.md)**: A guide to customizing the CLI's appearance with different themes.
- **[Tutorials](tutorials.md)**: A tutorial showing how to use Gemini CLI to automate a development task.

## Non-interactive mode

Gemini CLI can be run in a non-interactive mode, which is useful for scripting and automation. In this mode, you pipe input to the CLI, it executes the command, and then it exits.

The following example pipes a command to Gemini CLI from your terminal:

```bash
echo "What is fine tuning?" | gemini
```

Gemini CLI executes the command and prints the output to your terminal. Note that you can achieve the same behavior by using the `--prompt` or `-p` flag. For example:

```bash
gemini -p "What is fine tuning?"
```

Commit message:

Refactor documentation to replace "Gemini CLI" with "Soul CLI" throughout all relevant files, updating descriptions, tool functionalities, and integration details to reflect the new branding and enhanced capabilities of the Soul CLI. This includes changes in sections related to extensions, tools, telemetry, sandboxing, and terms of service, ensuring consistency and clarity in the user experience.

docs/cli/index.md, after:

# Soul CLI

Within Soul CLI, `packages/cli` is the frontend for users to send and receive prompts with the Gemini AI model and its associated tools. For a general overview of Soul CLI, see the [main documentation page](../index.md).

## Navigating this section

- **[Authentication](./authentication.md):** A guide to setting up authentication with Google's AI services.
- **[Commands](./commands.md):** A reference for Soul CLI commands (e.g., `/help`, `/tools`, `/theme`).
- **[Configuration](./configuration.md):** A guide to tailoring Soul CLI behavior using configuration files.
- **[Token Caching](./token-caching.md):** Optimize API costs through token caching.
- **[Themes](./themes.md)**: A guide to customizing the CLI's appearance with different themes.
- **[Tutorials](tutorials.md)**: A tutorial showing how to use Soul CLI to automate a development task.

## Non-interactive mode

Soul CLI can be run in a non-interactive mode, which is useful for scripting and automation. In this mode, you pipe input to the CLI, it executes the command, and then it exits.

The following example pipes a command to Soul CLI from your terminal:

```bash
echo "What is fine tuning?" | gemini
```

Soul CLI executes the command and prints the output to your terminal. Note that you can achieve the same behavior by using the `--prompt` or `-p` flag. For example:

```bash
gemini -p "What is fine tuning?"
```
