docs/cli/themes.md, before:

# Themes

Gemini CLI supports a variety of themes to customize its color scheme and appearance. You can change the theme to suit your preferences via the `/theme` command or `"theme":` configuration setting.

## Available Themes

Gemini CLI comes with a selection of pre-defined themes, which you can list using the `/theme` command within Gemini CLI:

- **Dark Themes:**
  - `ANSI`
  - `Atom One`
  - `Ayu`
  - `Default`
  - `Dracula`
  - `GitHub`
- **Light Themes:**
  - `ANSI Light`
  - `Ayu Light`
  - `Default Light`
  - `GitHub Light`
  - `Google Code`
  - `Xcode`

### Changing Themes

1.  Enter `/theme` into Gemini CLI.
2.  A dialog or selection prompt appears, listing the available themes.
3.  Using the arrow keys, select a theme. Some interfaces might offer a live preview or highlight as you select.
4.  Confirm your selection to apply the theme.

### Theme Persistence

Selected themes are saved in Gemini CLI's [configuration](./configuration.md) so your preference is remembered across sessions.

## Dark Themes

### ANSI

<img src="../assets/theme-ansi.png" alt="ANSI theme" width="600" />

### Atom OneDark

<img src="../assets/theme-atom-one.png" alt="Atom One theme" width="600">

### Ayu

<img src="../assets/theme-ayu.png" alt="Ayu theme" width="600">

### Default

<img src="../assets/theme-default.png" alt="Default theme" width="600">

### Dracula

<img src="../assets/theme-dracula.png" alt="Dracula theme" width="600">

### GitHub

<img src="../assets/theme-github.png" alt="GitHub theme" width="600">

## Light Themes

### ANSI Light

<img src="../assets/theme-ansi-light.png" alt="ANSI Light theme" width="600">

### Ayu Light

<img src="../assets/theme-ayu-light.png" alt="Ayu Light theme" width="600">

### Default Light

<img src="../assets/theme-default-light.png" alt="Default Light theme" width="600">

### GitHub Light

<img src="../assets/theme-github-light.png" alt="GitHub Light theme" width="600">

### Google Code

<img src="../assets/theme-google-light.png" alt="Google Code theme" width="600">

### Xcode

<img src="../assets/theme-xcode-light.png" alt="Xcode Light theme" width="600">

Commit message:

Refactor documentation to replace "Gemini CLI" with "Soul CLI" throughout all relevant files, updating descriptions, tool functionalities, and integration details to reflect the new branding and enhanced capabilities of the Soul CLI. This includes changes in sections related to extensions, tools, telemetry, sandboxing, and terms of service, ensuring consistency and clarity in the user experience.

docs/cli/themes.md, after:

# Themes

Soul CLI supports a variety of themes to customize its color scheme and appearance. You can change the theme to suit your preferences via the `/theme` command or `"theme":` configuration setting.

## Available Themes

Soul CLI comes with a selection of pre-defined themes, which you can list using the `/theme` command within Soul CLI:

- **Dark Themes:**
  - `ANSI`
  - `Atom One`
  - `Ayu`
  - `Default`
  - `Dracula`
  - `GitHub`
- **Light Themes:**
  - `ANSI Light`
  - `Ayu Light`
  - `Default Light`
  - `GitHub Light`
  - `Google Code`
  - `Xcode`

### Changing Themes

1.  Enter `/theme` into Soul CLI.
2.  A dialog or selection prompt appears, listing the available themes.
3.  Using the arrow keys, select a theme. Some interfaces might offer a live preview or highlight as you select.
4.  Confirm your selection to apply the theme.

### Theme Persistence

Selected themes are saved in Soul CLI's [configuration](./configuration.md) so your preference is remembered across sessions.

## Dark Themes

### ANSI

<img src="../assets/theme-ansi.png" alt="ANSI theme" width="600" />

### Atom OneDark

<img src="../assets/theme-atom-one.png" alt="Atom One theme" width="600">

### Ayu

<img src="../assets/theme-ayu.png" alt="Ayu theme" width="600">

### Default

<img src="../assets/theme-default.png" alt="Default theme" width="600">

### Dracula

<img src="../assets/theme-dracula.png" alt="Dracula theme" width="600">

### GitHub

<img src="../assets/theme-github.png" alt="GitHub theme" width="600">

## Light Themes

### ANSI Light

<img src="../assets/theme-ansi-light.png" alt="ANSI Light theme" width="600">

### Ayu Light

<img src="../assets/theme-ayu-light.png" alt="Ayu Light theme" width="600">

### Default Light

<img src="../assets/theme-default-light.png" alt="Default Light theme" width="600">

### GitHub Light

<img src="../assets/theme-github-light.png" alt="GitHub Light theme" width="600">

### Google Code

<img src="../assets/theme-google-light.png" alt="Google Code theme" width="600">

### Xcode

<img src="../assets/theme-xcode-light.png" alt="Xcode Light theme" width="600">
